#labels howto,gettingstarted,pypd
= before we start... =
  * you should have already Pure Data installed on your machine. check how to install it on: 
    * mac osx ([http://en.flossmanuals.net/PureData/InstallingOSX])
    * windows ([http://en.flossmanuals.net/PureData/InstallingWindows])
    * linux (ubuntu) ([http://en.flossmanuals.net/PureData/InstallingUbuntu])
  
  * you should be able to run it via command line. you can see how to achieve it here ([http://en.flossmanuals.net/PureData/StartingPD]).


= getting started! =

it's very easy to use pyPd. this tutorial will show how to get started with it, step by step...

== 1 - download... ==
to download pypd, you need to check out it from svn.

*OSX/Linux*

  # open a terminal.
  # make or change into the directory where you want the pypd sourcecode.
  # run the following command to download pypd from the svn repository:
      {{{svn checkout http://pypd.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ pypd-read-only}}}

*Windows*

you will need an svn client, like Tortoise (http://tortoisesvn.tigris.org/).

== 2 - configure... ==
after that, you have to configure pypd. for that you must:
  # among the downloaded files, open the "communication_class" directory.
  # open the "communication.py" file.
  # in the beggining of it, you will two important variables (PD_DIR, SERVER_DIR). the first stores where your original pd application is (that one you are able to run using a terminal). the second stores where the file server.pd (that were already downloaded with the source through svn) is. update its values (you must put the entire path!!!) and run the "_example.py_" file that is inside "_communication_class_" directory. if you have no errors, everything should be fine and configured!

== 3 - ... and run! ==
now, everything should be fine and you can try pyPd without problems! 
unhapilly, i still don't have a great documentation to guide new users, but there are some well comment files inside pypd directory, called _example.py. you can use them for a while to guide you through the libary.